From time to time I like to upload this video, so that those of my ‘friends’ and others who fell for this scary fascist bollocks and ranted and raved in favour of the crock of corrupt shite performing in it, and then voted for it and him, can squirm with embarrassment in their seats. It beats being ungracious in person.They won’t be squirming with regret, of course – ma tarax. They were “conned”. They were “tricked”. They were “fooled”. But they’re not idiots. No, of course they aren’t. Except that anybody with some basic knowledge of political communication would have recognised this instantly as a classic, textbook piece of fascist messaging. It’s modelled directly on the National Socialist Party messaging of 1930s Germany, with the added benefits of the communications technology of 2013.That rush of patriotic pride you get watching it? The goose-bumps? Your spirits soaring with the music to a sense of great things? The wonderful fuzzy feeling of togetherness through nationhood to beat the rest of Europe?Well, exactly. But when I saw this for the first time on television in the 2013 campaign, the only emotion I felt was primeval fear triggered by subconscious association of the sounds and visuals with historic recordings of fascist meetings. The images flooding my mind were of Hitler’s 1930s crowd-rousing meetings, swastikas, scary faceless mobs brainwashed with a single message. It was marketed as a positive message, a positive video, but subliminally, all I picked up was a sense of deep, unadulterated evil. This video was the moment when I fully understood, with dawning dread that sickened me, what was to come.As things turned out, my jangling antennae were not wrong. Even now, I can’t watch it without thinking how frightening it is.   Din L-Art Helwa has just uploaded this photo-montage on social media. Please share it widely. People need to know how bad it is, how bad it’s going to be, how abusive the situation is.Who can forget what a fuss and a scandal Muscat and his crooks kicked up in Opposition, when Joe Gasan, Mark Gasan and George Fenech invited the then Finance Minister, Tonio Fenech, for a trip on Fenech’s private plane to watch a football match in England? (He was wrong to go, and to make matters worse, Mark Gasan had actually invited the Prime Minister, Lawrence Gonzi, originally – but Gonzi had politely refused.)Now Muscat and his crooks, in power, have given Joe Gasan, Mark Gasan and George Fenech’s heirs (he has since died) a corrupt contract for a power station, an even more corrupt contract to buy all the electricity they produce whether we need it or not and at a price favourable to them, and are planning on allowing them to build massive skyscrapers in Sliema and Mriehel.And that is just the abuse and crookery we know about. Who knows what else there might be beneath the slimy surface.  Anglu Farrugia, the Speaker of the House, confirms by default that the Prime Minister bought his silence, in an interview with The Malta Independent.“The issues we had will remain between us,” he told his interviewer, Pierre Portelli.Farrugia was kicked out of the Labour Party’s deputy leader position only a few weeks before the 2013 general election. Party leader Joseph Muscat said that it was because he had passed a remark about a magistrate and impugned the independence of the judiciary. The real reason was that Farrugia had performed disastrously on a peak-viewing-time political debate, and Muscat wanted to replace him with switcher-magnet Louis Grech, an elderly MEP battling cancer, who had an extensive network of contacts among socio-economic group AB.Anglu Farrugia reacted by giving a big interview to The Sunday Times, alluding to pre-electoral shady dealings with business operators on the “fourth floor” of the Labour Party’s headquarters. He then went silent, causing people to wonder whether he had struck a deal with Muscat.Immediately Muscat was elected Prime Minister, he appointed Farrugia Speaker of the House. And last year, a few days after she completed the statutory requirement of seven years of law practice, he made Farrugia’s daughter, Caroline, a magistrate. Just past 30, Caroline Farrugia’s entire work experience consisted of helping her father in his law office. When he became Speaker, she was left alone and couldn’t cope. A solution was found. Farrugia also fixed a job for her husband, his son-in-law, in the parliament library.  The Christmas crib which the Malta government commissioned by direct order for display at St Peter’s in Rome cost €114,900 in payments to the maker, Manuel Grech. The sum does not include the cost of travel and accommodation for the sizeable delegation, which included Justice Minister Owen Bonnici and his girlfriend Janice Bartolo, who went to the Vatican for the ‘inauguration’.The direct order is listed in the Government Gazette as having been given in June (see picture below), but in this publicity video released by Parliamentary Secretary Justyne Caruana, Grech says that he has been working on it since February – four months before the government issued the direct order.You have to ask why the government of Malta spent so much money on a Christmas crib for the Vatican in the first place, instead of putting one up in Valletta or just using the money to feed the homeless – which is, after all, the essential theme of the Christmas crib. The answer is in the opening seconds of the video: Frank Zammit, who has had a lifelong career as John Dalli’s personal assistant, and who switched to Labour when Dalli did, calls him a “Vaticanologist” – which means a person obsessed with the Vatican.This is the basis of corruption, of course: using public funds to satisfy the personal interests, hobbies or quirks or bank accounts of the people in power, who then pass on the jobs to their cronies.     David Thake is back on Radio 101 from Monday, every weekday between 4.30pm and 6pm, making the rush-hour traffic good again. Altogether now: Malta Tagħna Lkoll…ħi.  This is Joanne Vella Cuschieri, a failed Labour Party candidate in the last general election and a close friend of Owen Bonnici, who had her made a magistrate. He seems to like giving state positions to his lady friends, whether they are a couple or not.I saw her most recently at Charles Grech café in Valletta a couple of weeks ago, in a huddle with fellow Labour magistrate Consuelo Scerri Herrera, who plonked herself down with her back to me. It can’t have been later than noon.  I’d like to see them try.  Watch this space – my report will be up later this morning, including a letter from John Dalli, then Minister for Economic Services, instructing the Commissioner for Lands directly to hand the land over to Marsovin in perpetuity for an annual ground rent. Nineteen years later, Marsovin sold it to Vassallo Builders for €8 million.Vassallo Builders never dealt with the government at any point but only with Marsovin. John Dalli served as an unofficial consultant to Marsovin at various points over the years, and was its chairman between 2004 and 2008 when he had been forced to resign from the cabinet of government over corruption accusations in the purchase of air tickets for his ministry from his daughter’s – for which read, his – travel agency.  I was listening to Norman Vella on Radio 101 while driving home yesterday, and Zaren tal-Ajkla rang in to hector him, insult the Nationalist government of yesteryear (quoting the Labour Party’s propaganda) and praise the Labour Party.Immediately, another man rang in from Zejtun. Isn’t it obvious Zaren tal-Ajkla is going to say that, he said. He’s one of Owen Bonnici’s biggest supporters. Owen Bonnici is his cousin.The thought of Owen tal-Ajkla kept me amused all the way home.  I had an email this morning from a friend who is sick to the back teeth of seeing Mrs Muscat, the Prime Minister’s wife, deliver her children to school in a state-paid car with a state-paid chauffeur.“It’s bad enough that we know the state is paying for a car and chauffeur for her exclusive use,” my friend said. “But what makes it even worse is that she makes the trip with them. This morning we had the usual scene right on the school doorstep. She gets out of the car in her pink flip-flops in this weather and does her usual ‘Byepupiloveyou’. She should either have the chauffeur take them to school alone, or she should drive them herself and leave the chauffeur out of it. The sight of Mama and the royal children being chauffeured for the school run was irritating even to begin with. Now, four years down the line and with her husband sinking in corruption, it’s really and truly getting up all our noses. What a sickening sight.”As I told my friend, you can’t expect bogans to understand these things. The idea of mama being chauffeured on the school run with her children, with everything paid for by the taxes of the husbands of all the other mothers at the gate, is actually Bogan Heaven.  A friend who works at the state general hospital, Mater Dei, has just emailed to say that a “high level Chinese delegation” visited this morning and they have only just left. They were in two chauffeur-driven limos and a “VIP minibus”.  Deborah Schembri, parliamentary secretary for Lands, and Owen Bonnici, the Justice Minister, are currently leading a government campaign against Jason Azzopardi, the shadow minister for justice, and Vassallo Builders Group. The message they are pushing hard is that Vassallo Builders loaned (not donated) a quarter of a million euros to the Nationalist Party, and in return Jason Azzopardi – when he was the Parliamentary Secretary for Lands – signed over a large tract of land, the former site of the failed Löwenbräu brewery, for a few hundred thousand euros when it was worth €8 million. To add to the conspiracy story, Deborah Schembri has also repeated incessantly that she has the sworn testimony of an anonymous eye-witness who told her he saw “Jason Azzopardi walking round the land with Nazzareno Vassallo”, the company CEO.Having investigated the story, I am at a loss to decide which is the more shocking: the true facts of the case involving John Dalli and Marsovin, or the sight and sound of the government brazenly lying, when it knows it is lying, in a Joseph-Goebbels-inspired exercise to achieve the double objective of tarnishing its most vociferous critic on the Opposition benches, while simultaneously protecting John Dalli, who is a consultant to the Prime Minister, and Dalli’s clients, the wine-makers Marsovin.This is the story, and I am going to tell it in chronological order and bald facts, so that there is no room for confusion.On 7th November 1990, John Dalli, who was then Minister for Economic Affairs in the government led by Prime Minister Eddie Fenech Adami, wrote to the Commissioner of Lands, instructing him to give a large tract of state-owned land in Qormi to a company which Marsovin had incorporated with a view to setting up a brewery to make Löwenbräu
beer under licence.Dalli told the Commissioner of Lands that the land was to be given to them in perpetuity, for an annual ground rent. Dalli was not the Minister responsible for government property at the time, but he completely bypassed the minister responsible. The granting of public land in perpetuity has been described to me as “unheard of”. Albert Mamo, a retired public servant who was Commissioner for Lands for many years, says that he knows of only two such exceptional cases in his decades-long career: Marsovin/AgriCo and Foster Clarks. (He was speaking to Jason Azzopardi and not directly to this website.)After he read my earlier promo for this story, an old friend, Georges Bonello Dupuis, rang me. His late father, George, was Finance Minister in 1990. “I remember him coming home steaming with fury about what John Dalli had done,” he said. “It’s as clear as yesterday. He was raging about how Dalli had insisted on transferring a large piece of government land to Marsovin in perpetuity instead of for a fixed period, how completely shocking and absurd it was, and how Dalli had talked Fenech Adami into believing it had to be done that way. My father was furious because he could see what Dalli was up to, and as a notary he knew the meaning and the consequences of a deal like that. But he couldn’t persuade Fenech Adami and Dalli got his way.” (This is reported with Georges Bonello Dupuis’s consent; his father died seven years ago.)John Dalli’s letter to the Lands Commissioner says:Messrs Lowenbrau (sic) Ltd are planning to set up an industrial process for the production of alcoholic and non alcoholic beverages.As the land which they had originally acquired for this project is not considered by Government as environmentally suitable, another site has been identified as shown in the attached plan.As this project is considered to be of economic benefit to this country, you are requested to take the necessary steps to enter into a lease agreement with the afore mentioned company to grant this land on perpetual emphyteusis at a ground rent of LM5,000 a year for the first two years and LM10,000 a year thereafter.The usual conditions of the lease as per government policy are to apply.Owen Bonnici, the Justice Minister, spent €13,430 on two first-class return tickets to China for himself and for his “private secretary”, in March last year.Bonnici and his private secretary, who is unnamed in the item listed among direct orders published in the Government Gazette, spent just over a day in China. They flew from Malta on 22 March and flew back on 25 March. The purpose of their visit was given as “to attend a forum”.  You couldn’t make these things up. Helena Dalli, who has set herself up as the champion of civil liberties and trailblazer for equality, has taken the Victorian route or, let’s say, the 20th-century Maltese backwoods track, with her husband publicly challenging the political candidate who called her a bitch.As a grown woman and a cabinet minister with that particular portfolio, shouldn’t she be fighting her own battles, if she thinks they need to be fought at all?This is so embarrassing. Patrick Dalli needs to understand that his wife is no longer ‘his wife’, and that he is not defending her honour in a bar or amongst family or neighbours or against private insult.Let’s put it this way – what would we think if a cabinet minister’s wife openly challenged a candidate of the rival party who had insulted her husband? Well, exactly. Equality and all that, Mrs Dalli.And Salvu Mallia should not meet Patrick Dalli at all, because he would be colluding in this treatment of wives as though they are their husband’s chattels. If he is to meet anybody at all, it should be the Minister herself. And I wouldn’t do that either because there is no justification she can give for putting both her sons and her son’s fiancée on the state payroll.Stay away, Salvu. You should never meet a man to discuss his wife. It’s so southern-Mediterranean primitive. Wives do not belong to husbands. If you don’t believe me, check with the Minister for Equality. Also, your issue is with how the Minister put her sons and the fiancée on the public payroll – so exactly how do you think her husband is qualified to speak to you about that? It was her decision and not his – or is Patrick Dalli now coopted to the cabinet alongside his wife?It is from Helena Dalli that you need your answers, not her husband.   Kien il-vera wertit, ma taħsibx?  This photograph, taken on 15th November 2014, shows Owen Bonnici, the Minister for Justice, buying pillows at Tal-Lira where everything costs a euro.He had left his wife and daughter for Janice Bartolo earlier that year and was setting up home in a mezzanine in Old Mint Street, Valletta. So he goes to Tal-Lira to buy his personal pillows for a euro, and then spends €13,400 of taxpayers’ funds on first-class flights for himself and for his private secretary to fly to China for just a day so that he can talk bollocks at a Chinese forum about tourism, tweet about it,  and then fly back to Janice, who gets to rest her head on Tal-Lira pillows.  Government-fed stories about Lloyd’s moving to Malta post-Brexit cluttered up some of the newspapers over the last few days. You can’t believe a single thing that comes out of that laundromat – it’s disturbing. Lloyd’s itself ruled it out yesterday.  One of them is sick and tired of being out of the limelight, and the other knows he has been in the limelight a little too much for all the wrong reasons, and wants to get people talking about something else.Those who think that Evarist Bartolo is normal and decent “because he likes English and is married to Gillian Sammut” need to put on their spectacles and take a proper look at what’s staring them in the face. Even Deborah Schembri, who was linked with them in the divorce referendum battle, knows enough to stay away from being associated with their latest public relations tactic. She has cited “previous engagements” which I rather suspect are subsequent engagements or none at all.Socio-political developments? I think sociopathic developments would be more accurate.  Sleazy Anglu Farrugia and shady Marie Louise Coleiro are determined to die in the saddle.   The Times of Malta reports this morning  that the cabinet office is finding it too difficult to work out guidelines on how ministers of the government should use their official and personal email addresses.Because it’s so complicated, isn’t it? How about this: use your personal email address to send and receive your personal emails, and use your official address to send and receive anything related to your position as a government minister. Do not send and receive personal emails using your government address, and do not send and receive government-related emails using your personal address. People who work for companies and corporations know this. I have yet to receive an email from a company employee using his or her Gmail address rather than the company’s. But apparently, for the members of the cabinet this is far too complicated to understand. They need a complete book of guidelines, and its compilation has very conveniently been stalled.This will allow the bastards – because really, that’s what they are – to say when caught emailing using their Gmail about shifty contracts to do with cafes and compensation, or using their Hotmail when discussing their canvasser’s corruption, to say that they didn’t know they weren’t supposed to do that because there are no guidelines.Government exchanges should always be on gov.mt addresses because they are recorded in the government server and can be retrieved. Gmail and Hotmail can’t be retrieved. And that’s exactly why these crooks don’t like using their gov.mt addresses.  Those two crooked degenerates, Jeffrey Pullicino  and Evarist Bartolo, have just held a totally whacky press conference that made them look like a couple of looney-tunes. You would never believe that one corrupt crackpot is the executive chairman of the Malta Council for Science and Technology and the other is Malta’s Education Minister.That old sod Bartolo must be cracking under the pressure of his massive corruption having been uncovered. Pullicino has always been nuts and a violent drunk, as two ex wives will testify, one of whom has petitioned the courts to have their very brief marriage annulled on that basis, among others that include non-consummation.And how stupid does a drunkard have to be – oh, sorry, they spiked his drink again – to stage his press event at a restaurant called Bacchus?  How I laughed.Public life in Malta has been hijacked by psychiatric cases and the corrupt.    Some adjectives used by the journalists from The Malta Independent, the Times of Malta and Malta Today, who covered this tragic farce put on by a dissolute 53-year-old drunkard and a corrupt pensioner with a serious canvasser problem: “strange”, “surreal”, “bizarre”.Pullicino and Bartolo did not have quite the effect they intended. Context is all, chaps – the last time you tried to pull a stunt like this, you were working for the Opposition and Gonzi was Prime Minister. It’s a little different now.   He did have one once, though, didn’t he? He must have done. It must be so uncomfortable to have your chin rest directly on your starched collar. I mean, what do you do when you need to look down at something? Fascinating.And there’s that Bartolo, looking a complete shambles. His morose Suor Crocefissa expression isn’t helped by the fact that he looks like he hasn’t slept in a month. These two must be such a joy at the breakfast table: one ranting and raving in a whisky-fuelled frenzy, and the other looking like Gillian poured Mastrolindo or Dettol in his mug by mistake and he drank it.We can’t get rid of them soon enough, but it looks like not even a stake through the heart will do it.  I had an email yesterday (reproduced below with her consent) from an old friend who left Malta many years ago and who had just read this post about John Dalli, Marsovin and the land in Qormi. She was a lawyer at MIMCOL (Malta Investment Management Company Ltd – the state corporation which the incoming Nationalist government had set up to manage state-owned assets) and the Malta Development Corpporation in the early 1990s.When she read about the ongoing government accusations that Vassallo Builders had bought the Qormi land from the government in 2009, she said, she couldn’t understand how this was possible because it was Marsovin which held the concession. “My first thought was that the Marsovin concession must have reverted back to the government, because otherwise the government wouldn’t have been able to deal with Vassallo. I remember the story of the scandalous lease to Marsovin when it happened back then. Then I read your report.”She continued: “Dalli tried to do the same with the Dragonara Casino in 1990/1991. It took me a great deal of effort, with the support of Louis Galea (Joinwell Ltd boss, not the ex-minister, since deceased – at the time state corporation chairman), Professor Joe Ganado and George Bonello Dupuis, then Finance Minister (furious, and with a long string of swearing) to stop the deal from going through. “Dalli, who was Minister of Economic Services and really pushing to give the Dragonara Casino to an Austrian company for 99 years, threw me out of his office, saying I had set off a chain of events that was blocking ‘a good deal for government’ (yeah, right). I remember the expression he used: “Min ma jaħxix ma jagħmilx frieħ”. “The company to which he had wanted to hand the Dragonara Casino for a century went bankrupt just two years later. Luckily, the emphyteusis was for five years and with stringent conditions attached, so the government got it back. “Professor  Ganado represented the Austrian company on the deal, but despite being their lawyer he played his part in resisting the 99-year-lease demand which Dalli was pushing through the Malta Development Corporation. The Lands Department was not involved, because the property had been assigned already (I do not recall how) by the government to Casma Ltd, which back then managed the Dragonara Casino. The government of Malta was the sole shareholder in Casma Ltd, which was in a very bad financial situation.”  Yesterday morning, I had a WhatsApp message from a friend who is from Qormi, and who was still living in that town in the early 1990s. Bear in mind that Dalli was raised in Qormi and that it was his constituency. He was Minister for Economic Services at the time.“Good morning, Daphne. I’m reading your article on the Qormi brewery. I remember way back in 1990 how furious the fireworks enthusiasts of the St Sebastian feast were at John Dalli for signing off that piece of land to Marsovin. “They had used it for many years to let off their fireworks. I remember Dalli coming in person to the St Sebastian band club to meet this big crowd of angry people, trying to convince them that this was necessary and ultimately in their children’s interests as “most of them would be employed at the brewery”. “Secondly, I am quite sure that John Sciberras, formerly of the Lands Department, was involved in dropping that clause, freeing the land from all conditions on use. He is very close to John Dalli and was still at the Lands Department until Jason Azzopardi was made Parliamentary Secretary for Lands. But he maintained his close links to the department, and obviously knew everyone there.”When I telephoned John Sciberras for comment, he denied all involvement. He was no longer director-general of the Government Property Division at the time, he said. Sciberras, however, is a consultant to the Office of the Prime Minister, on government property, and is noted in the National Audit Office report on the matter as having been directly involved in the scandalous Café Premier deal with Prime Minister Muscat, orchestrated by Gmail exchange.  UPDATE: An important point has just occurred to me, which should be obvious but which has been missed. Muscat and Konrad Mizzi, and the government trolls who pollute the comments-boards, keep insisting that what Konrad Mizzi and Keith Schembri did “was not illegal”. But if it were not illegal – criminal, because the police only deal with crimes and not with breaches of civil law – Manfred Galdes would not have given the FIAU report directly to the Police Commissioner with a request for action.There you have the surest evidence yet that Keith Schembri and Konrad Mizzi were/are involved in criminal activity.
—–Read this story  in The Malta Independent. Sven Giegold, a member of the European Parliament’s Panama Papers Committee, has made the same point I have been making here for months: that the government’s supposed audit by a private firm, of Konrad Mizzi’s dealings, is ridiculous and pointless given that there has been a specialised forensic audit already by a state department empowered to seek information across countries under the law – the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit.The Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit, when it was led by Manfred Galdes, investigated the key figures involved in the Panama Papers fall-out and transferred its report to the then Commissioner of Police, Michael Cassar, who then took extended leave of absence from work, and never returned, announcing his resignation instead. Some weeks later, Galdes himself resigned, no doubt over the failure of the police to act on his unit’s investigation.What Giegold doesn’t seem to know, however, is that as far as Muscat and the government he leads are concerned, the general public does not know about that FIAU report because the only place where its existence has been reported is on this website. I was able to report it after sources at the Police Headquarters confirmed to me that Commissioner Michael Cassar had met Manfred Galdes, then the FIAU chief, who had presented him with the report and asked for action.The whereabouts of that report, after Cassar’s departure, are now unknown.Pretending that there is no FIAU report and ignoring the facts specified on this website has allowed the Prime Minister and Konrad Mizzi to keep talking about a private audit commissioned from a consultancy firm, safe in the knowledge that nobody – except me, and now Giegold – is going to say to them: “You don’t need a private audit. You have a massive and thorough forensic investigation report carried out by the FIAU, in the Police Commissioner’s Office and probably still on file at the FIAU unless somebody has destroyed all records of it.”  The Sunday Times reports this morning that Tourism Minister ED ZL has been taken off Air Malta’s case and that the airline’s fate has been placed in the hands of the deputy prime minister (Louis Grech, in case you’d forgotten) with Joe Capello as his consultant.Perhaps they think you can solve the problems of the present and future by resurrecting the ghosts of the past. Louis Grech, who turns 70 in a few weeks, was Air Malta’s chairman in the past when Joe Capello was the CEO.The incoming Labour government got rid of Peter Davies,  cutting off its nose to spite its face, only to create this terrible mess.Creaking open the door to the fossil cabinet and bringing back Louis Grech, who is supposed to be the deputy PM, and Joe Capello, who is supposed to be retired, means that they are blasting back to the past and giving those two men bigger Air Malta problems now than they could solve back when they were directly in charge.It also means that the current chairman, Maria Micallef, has effectively been rendered redundant. I have been meaning to comment about her presence all over the newspapers and in the negotiations for a while now anyway. Maria Micallef is the chairman and not the CEO, which means that she should have been nowhere in sight while the CEO took the decisions. But Air Malta’s CEO, Philip Micallef, quietly resigned last August without a word in the press and he hasn’t been replaced since. He was never quoted by journalists, who went directly to Maria Micallef, who then failed to direct them to the CEO, who is the one who should be taking questions from the press about the company. Instead, she fronted for the airline herself and also spoke about airline matters related to negotiations when that is 100% the CEO’s business.Philip Micallef, who left a position as chief of a regulatory authority in Bermuda to return to Malta for the Air Malta position, himself replaced Louis Giordmaina (formerly of Lufthansa Technik) in the job. Giordmaina was appointed Air Malta CEO by the incoming Labour government in 2013, but left after less than a year.   Seven months after the resignation of Manfred Galdes,  the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit remains without a director. You will see from this organisational chart that in the absence of a director, there is nobody to give direction to the unit.The FIAU’s board of governors is chaired by the Attorney General, a great pal of the current government who not even been embarrassed to blur boundaries by sharing a box at the theatre  with the Justice Minister and his girlfriend, a Labour Party television propagandist.The Attorney-General should be challenged about the state of affairs at the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit and about his several conflicts of interest in his public roles and personal alliances.  UPDATE: I have since obtained Luciano Busuttil’s number and have been trying to ring him. The first few times, he hit the reject button. Now the calls go straight through to voicemail.————-On 30 December, I received the photograph below from a friend who was in Victoria, Gozo, at around midday (a very reliable friend – he is a senior school official). The car in the photograph is the state-funded vehicle used by Luciano Busuttil, the Labour MP who chairs the Malta Sports Council. It is parked in a slot reserved for the disabled. Busuttil will now write to the Data Protection Commissioner, as he has done once already, to complain that I revealed his number-plate publicly, and that I should be ordered to remove it. However, showing his number-plate is essential, as otherwise that could be any old car and you would have to take it on trust that it is his, which is just not on.My friend wrote: “Luciano Busuttil has parked in a disabled parking spot in full view of everyone outside Arkadia, with complete indifference. I have confirmed that he doesn’t have a disabled parking badge on his car.”I replied: “He’s not even remotely disabled except for flat feet.”My friend wrote back, having checked the car windscreen a little while later: “He now appears to have a disabled parking badge. Amazing. And absolutely no one in his entourage was even remotely disabled.  Clearly, the man must have a disability badge as a way of always finding available parking. What utter scum. I’m just waiting for him to pontificate about how they care about the elderly and disabled! They have no shame.”Because the photo and story arrived in the festive rush, I failed to upload it immediately and then it got buried in a stack of other things. But this afternoon I received an email from another person, who I do not know, and so I remembered about it.“Do you know that Luciano Busuttil’s wife, Dorothy, has a handicapped permit? Her husband’s state-paid driver takes their children to school so that she can be at the office – a Taghna Lkoll job at the Malta Gaming Authority – on time. “She doesn’t need to hassle for parking when she gets to Smart City, where she works, because she has a disabled badge. But she doesn’t look disabled at all, not with those high heels. She arrives between 7.30am and 7.45am in a white Alfa Romeo Giulietta and slips straight into a parking bay reserved for the handicapped.”Since I rang Luciano Busuttil about the fake Mark Abela Facebook profile which he used to try to pick up women, I have changed my phone and lost his number. So I am waiting for a colleague to send it to me. However, should the Labour MP and Malta Sports Council chairman wish to ring me, meanwhile, to explain why both he and his wife have been issued with disabled parking badges, he may do so at any time.  I sent Luciano Busuttil a message asking him to return my call on the matter of this post. He has just done so, having read the post already, including the bit where I wrote that he hit the call-reject button when I rang.I will reproduce our telephone conversation as best I can, because I have been rendered almost speechless at the abusive nerve of these people.LB: “I’m sorry I didn’t answer your call, but bhalissa qieghed naqra busy.”Me: “Thank you for returning it anyway. It’s about your and your wife’s use of disabled parking badges on your cars.”LB: “Yes, yes, yes, very easy to explain. My wife has a disabled parking sticker.”Me: “But she isn’t disabled.”LB: “Stenna, stenna, let me explain. In May 2013 she had a bad traffic accident and was in a wheelchair for a while. Some of her injuries were permanent. She got a disabled parking sticker in 2013 for two years, and in 2015 it was renewed for another two years.”Me: “What is her disability? The sort of disability that allows her to spend all day in five-inch heels?”LB: “Dak m’ghandhux jaqsam. She can wear high heels but she can’t walk.”Me: “Maybe if she didn’t wear five-inch heels she would be able to walk.”LB: “She can walk. She just can’t walk long distances.”Me: “So she can’t walk from a normal parking space to the shops or from the Smart City car park to her office, but then she can spend hours at parties and receptions, standing in pointed shoes with high heels?”LB: “She can’t stand for a long time. She doesn’t come with me to parties.”Me: “Maybe she goes to parties with Mark Abela instead. Why do you use her disabled parking badge on your car, and park in disabled parking slots when you’re driving your own car?”LB: “That’s because she’s with me in the car.”Me: “What a lousy excuse. That badge is for disabled people driving their own car, or for people too disabled to be dropped off by others at their destination or on the pavement. Why are you blocking a disabled parking space when you could easily deposit her at your destination, go off and park somewhere civilised, and walk back to meet her? You’re not disabled. For example – that anecdote and photo I’ve just uploaded, saying that you parked in the disabled parking spot near Arkadia in Gozo when you had a whole bunch of passengers. Why didn’t you drop your wife off at Arkadia with the other people and go off and park in a normal space, instead of blocking a disabled parking bay that a person who is actually disabled might need to use?”LB: “It’s because she can’t stand and wait for me.”Me (resisting the urge to suggest that she buys a pair of sneakers): “You’re joking, right. By that same token, my elderly parents should be using a disabled parking sticker, like many other people’s, so that my father doesn’t have to drop my mother off, go off and park, and then walk back to meet her. But they’re not going to apply for one because they’re not going to block a disabled parking bay when there are wheelchair-bound people driving their own cars. Who are you kidding? It’s not as though people don’t see Mrs Busuttil running around looking anything but disabled. You got that disabled badge abusively because you got it in 2013, and it was renewed abusively because nobody wants to say no to a member of the Labour power brigade.”LB: “Dak int qed tghidu ghax mohhok fl-abbuz tal-poter. Mhux hekk ktibt, abuse of power?”Me: “Yes, I think you are totally abusive of your position, as it happens. It’s completely disgusting.”LB: “I have to go now because I am at a meeting about the presidency.”Me: “Gosh, you’re very important.”LB: “Yes, it’s very important.”Me: “No, I said, you’re very important. And apparently, also disabled.”He rings off. So now we know: Dorothy Busuttil, who shows absolutely no signs of physical impairment and is never seen without what are known in the business as tart’s trotters, is classified as disabled and has used a disabled parking sticker for the last four years, as has her husband Luciano, blocking disabled parking bays with a bogan disregard for others. Taghna Lkoll.  So that would be why he’s selling so many passports and residence visas to Gulf Arabs, Russians and Chinese: to make Malta more cosmopolitan.Meanwhile, he’s taking his first steps towards the physical side of the cosmopolitan look, with plans for lots of nice skyscrapers.  And he gets a good answer, too. Also, shouldn’t the Education Minister, a university lecturer, be quoting from source rather than just Googling Facebook-friendly quotes? But he’ll be hard pushed to find a source for that one. The clue is in the use of ‘revenge’ as a verb. One takes revenge; one does not revenge. But I’m sure the man who pretends to love English, so as to pick up the votes of undiscriminating pepe types, knows that already.Such rubbish – even in the Education Ministry.  Stephen Bonello’s cartoon in The Sunday Times today – I love it.  Britain’s Supreme Court has ruled today that the referendum result on Britain’s exit from the European Union does not give the government a mandate, and that the matter must be decided by parliament.This is a timely reminder that in representative democracies, there can be no government by mob rule – and a referendum is essentially not an exercise in democracy but in mob rule.“The referendum is of great political significance, but the act of Parliament which established it did not say what should happen as a result, so any change in the law to give effect to the referendum must be made in the only way permitted by the U.K. Constitution, namely by an act of Parliament,” David Neuberger, the president of the Supreme Court, said when reading the judgement. “To proceed otherwise would be a breach of settled constitutional principles stretching back many centuries.”It is also a reminder – to us in Malta, too, as our system is the same – that the supremacy of parliament is greater than that of the government, and that the government is only the government because it commands the greater number of seats in parliament. It cannot act without parliament.This is also testament to the power of a single individual, in a true democracy with functional institutions, to challenge the government with recourse to the Constitution. The case was set in motion by Gina Miller, an investment adviser, who challenged the government’s decision to take Britain out of the European Union without a parliamentary vote of consent.She won the case in the court of first instance. The government appealed and lost.  Disgraced former European Commissioner John Dalli, a consultant to Prime Minister Muscat, has made a formal request to the police to prosecute me for “harassing” him.I will keep you updated on this matter. Meanwhile, I am seeking advice on aspects related to Constitutional law and human rights, in readiness to challenge this abuse of power and violation of my rights to freedom of expression as an ordinary citizen and, above all, as a journalist with the duty to hold people like him to account.The police apparently wish to interrogate me about my attempts at harassing the Prime Minister’s consultant. They had better prepare a warrant for my arrest – which is going to look spectacularly good and even better while Malta holds the presidency of the European Council – because I am not going to comply on principle.The police believe that they have got to comply when they receive a formal request for prosecution (kwerela) and then it is up to the courts to decide. But they are wrong. The process of interrogation, prosecution, criminal charges, interminable court appearances and legal costs is in itself a form of harassment, most especially when used by politicians and others in power against the journalists who draw public attention to their wrong-doing, abuse and multiple failings.It has what the European Court of Human Rights calls “a chilling effect” on journalists and is fundamentally abusive in itself.If John Dalli thinks I have lied about him or distorted the facts in his regard, then he has recourse to the law under the Press Act, for libel. He can file a civil suit as normal people do.But instructing the police to harass and prosecute a journalist for writing about him is something straight out of the states with which Dalli and his client, Joseph Muscat, are most comfortable.  I listened to David Thake’s show on Radio 101 yesterday. He tried to ring Labour MP Luciano Busuttil repeatedly about this matter.  Each time, Busuttil hit the call-reject button.Thake has just opened his show today with another attempt at ringing him. And again, Busuttil hit the call-reject button. Because there’s not much he can say, is there? His wife isn’t even remotely disabled and yet she has used a disabled-parking badge on her car for four years, and Busuttil himself transfers it to his car for family outings so that no member of the Busuttil entourage has to walk anywhere. Dorothy Busuttil arrives at her destination armed with a disabled-parking badge, slips into a disabled-parking spot, and gets out to race around in shoes with skyscraper heels, the sort which have you standing effectively on tip-toe with your toes trapped in a vice.Trid tkun il-vera bogan.  Is there any opportunity provided by their being in power that they won’t exploit, having created it for their very purpose in the first place?And we keep forgetting that it’s not really a triad because there’s a fourth person very tightly involved with Joseph Muscat, Keith Schembri and Konrad Mizzi: Phyllis Muscat.So Joseph Muscat, Konrad Mizzi and Keith Schembri sign over several of Malta’s public hospitals to a shady front man called Ram Tumuluri, saying that it will help with ‘medical tourism’. And then, inevitably, we discover that Phyllis Muscat has set up an office to handle medical tourism to Malta, with another Taghna Lkoller called Claire Cassar. Neither of them has any experience at all in the sector, but amazingly, Temos has found them to be ideal – for the same purposes an international company would find somebody to be ideal in a corrupt dictatorship.That’s how bad things have become here. Those avaricious individuals are not just sucking the trough dry but also creating more and more troughs in which to wallow.Read more here.  Isn’t it obvious it’s going to be in March next year? That’s when the five years are up. Nobody with even the most basic insight into how those minds work would have imagined it would be any earlier than that – later, if anything, to give them more time to cover their tracks, delete evidence, make themselves safe from investigation and prosecution, fit in a little more hay-making, and fight hard to avoid a situation in which they have to face the police a lot sooner than they think.Mela ħasibna ċwieċ.  Has it gone to their heads, or what? It looks like all these Labour bastards began cheating on their wives and the mothers of their children as soon as they got into power. It’s just one after the other. And then, not content with that, they bring their girlfriends on board the gravy-train, too.Alfred Mifsud is the deputy governor of the Central Bank of Malta, for heaven’s sake: a sex cheat, sending messages to his secret girlfriend while the mother of his children is sitting opposite him at a restaurant table, then filing a court case to have her and their children evicted from their home on the grounds that he owns it and it is registered in his name. What sort of person does that to his children: cheat on their mother and then go to court to force them out of their home so that his girlfriend can use it instead. I mean, really.It’s not as though we should expect everybody in public life to be some kind of pillar of moral rectitude, but there are limits, and this is the deputy governor of the Central Bank, somebody who should command respect. The only reason that he isn’t actually governor of the Central Bank is that I reported this story, detailed in court this morning,  just in time to stop this cheating shambles being put in charge of Malta’s most important financial institution.Men who cheat on the mother of their children will cheat on anything – as in fact happened.   Malta was 37th on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index in 2015. In 2016, it sank to 47th place, and now ranks below the Bahamas.It was the year when the world discovered that Malta’s Energy Minister, Konrad Mizzi and the Prime Minister’s chief of staff, Keith Schembri, had begun the process to set up covert companies in Panama, sheltered by secret trusts in New Zealand, just days after coming to power in March 2013, and that the Prime Minister isn’t able or willing to do anything about it because a third Panama company associated with theirs is almost certainly his.It was the year when people watched as the Commissioner of Police resigned rather than do anything about, the chief of the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit left his post in despair, Labour Party functionaries and failed politicians were made magistrates and judges, state councils, institutions, government departments, commissions and committees were ‘ethnically cleansed’ even further to give the government absolute control and the ability to instil fear in others through the threat of retaliatory measures and vengeance.Hospitals, the power station, skyscrapers, public transport, public appointments, the Jordanian University of Bribes and Baksheesh represented in Malta by the Labour Party’s long-time auditor – nothing has been left untainted by corruption and scandal.This is the supposedly liberal and progressive, most transparent government ever in the history of Malta. And then the corrupt idiots actually imagine that Lloyd’s is going to set up its new headquarters in this filthy place, with such a bad reputation, post Brexit. They got put in their place pretty rapidly on that one.  Read this story  in the Times of Malta this morning. Over the last few weeks, this website has featured photographs of the kind of planes Air Malta has been wet-leasing, and the complaints of passengers who booked a flight with Air Malta and ended up on a converted cargo plane or a tacky Ellinair aircraft with non-functioning lavatories.That’s what you get when you rope in the manager of the island’s Coca-Cola bottling plant to run the national airline – while she’s still running the Coca-Cola bottling plant. Maria Micallef is Air Malta’s chairman, but already she’s seen off two well-respected CEOs, Louis Giordmaina (formerly of Lufthansa Technik) and Philip Micallef (formerly of the Malta Communications Authority) to plant herself on centre-stage and serve the government’s specialised interests rather than those of the airline itself. And no doubt her own interests too, because she even sought and gained advantage for her unemployable boyfriend.So the incoming Labour government removed Air Malta’s then CEO, Peter Davis, in 2013, after years of campaigning against him while they were in Opposition, saying he was paid too much and that a Maltese person could do it (because you know how it is, Malta is teeming with aviation industry crisis management specialists). And they installed the manager of a soft drinks bottling plant instead and are now probably wondering why the crisis downward-spiralled into a catastrophe.The trouble with the Labour Party is that they think anybody can do any job, with no special skills required. Look at them – look at every decision they’ve taken. It’s all been based on that assumption. They give a power station contract to Maltese tinpot businessmen who run car dealerships and hotels and build flats. They sign over Malta’s public hospital to a Canadian-Indian fraudster who couldn’t even run a guest-house without bankrupting it. They install people in public positions who have neither the skills nor the track record to qualify them for the job. It’s just horrendous.  I have read this report in the Times of Malta  and watched the embedded video interview with Mario Demarco, deputy leader of the Nationalist Party. I will try to be as tactful as possible.The trouble with this country is that people don’t understand the meaning of the word ‘choices’, which cohabits with that other alien word, ‘decisions’. Maltese people want to wear lots of hats simultaneously and think they have a divine right not to be criticised if they can’t cope with all of them. And other Maltese people who think this state of affairs is entirely normal speak and behave as though the job or post should accommodate the person, when everywhere else in the civilised, normal world it’s the other way round. The inability to cope due to illness is not a justified excuse to fend off those who point out that you are failing to deliver. You can’t cry “Oh, but I’m too ill to cope!” Illness is a reason for resignation if you are in a CEO or deputy CEO position, because the nature of that position means that you cannot be temporarily replaced or filled in for, and that the functioning of the organisation depends on your pulling your full weight. Those who care about their duties more than they care about themselves don’t stay in situ while the job fails to get done, and then get angry and hurt when they are reminded that they are there to do a job and that the job has got to be done.As I said to Mario Demarco myself when he rang me the day I wrote what I did – we spoke for a long time, and much of it was personal, confidential and can’t be reported – when his medical problems are of that nature, what he needs most of all is peace of mind and as little stress as possible. “I can’t understand why you’re not prioritising,” I said to him. “There are no supermen in this world. In your position I would have stepped down. I can’t imagine having to cope with such a serious medical problem while stressing out about all the other stuff. What on earth for?”It is plainly obvious to any sensible person that Demarco has got to make a choice. It is too late now to make the choice to leave the deputy leadership – the general election is just a year away, and that choice should have been made as soon as he was diagnosed. So the choice he has to make now is to throw his entire weight behind the campaign to get rid of the corrupt government. Lying low and crying illness is simply not an option. Besides which, the same complaints were made about his invisibility back in the electoral campaign of 2013, and he wasn’t ill or undergoing surgery back then.I am not one to say things behind people’s backs rather than straight to their faces, so unlike all those who are muttering that Demarco is as invisible now as he was in the general election campaign, I said what I think when we spoke on the phone. I said to him that it is not possible for any human being to cope with a demanding professional practice, a seat in parliament and a constituency, a position as deputy leader of a political party which has to fight a tough electoral battle while restructuring the party itself, a young family, and also a very serious illness which has twice required major surgery and which has had permanent debilitating consequences, both physical and psychological. It is impossible to do all that. So something has to go. Mario Demarco never wanted to go into politics. He absolutely detests the limelight and is a very private person. That is the real reason he failed to speak publicly about his illness, and not because he wished to conceal information from the public for nefarious ends, like that other one in the Auberge de Castille. But this is the classic heat-and-kitchen scenario. He is also shy, self-conscious and extremely reserved. These are good qualities in a man, but they are not good qualities for fighting dangerous electoral battles.Demarco wanted to be a lawyer working in New York. He said as much once in an interview, but most of us knew that anyway. He went into politics for his father and he has stayed on as a tribute to his father. And unfortunately, it shows. As he himself says, unlike his father he is not a political animal at all. And as it happens, that’s exactly why I like him and think he has made enough sacrifices to fulfil the wishes of others. Now it’s time to do what he really wants to do, which clearly isn’t politics. Instead of listening to the aides who want him back in power so that they can be in power themselves, he should listen to his own heart. And I told him this myself.Mario Demarco is at a personal crossroads. He must now choose between putting his true nature aside, staying on as deputy leader of the Nationalist Party and fighting hard against government corruption, or stepping down to follow his own heart for the first time. We don’t get to live our lives twice over.  Robert Abela is a nasty piece of work who spent five years freeloading at three palaces with his Labour Party executive wife, Lydia, when his father was head of state, but who then had no problem of conscience in taking to a mass meeting stage to verbally knife the man who made it possible, Prime Minister Gonzi – the very same man who also made it possible for his law firm to get the Malta Planning Authority legal-counsel contract for years and years and years (disgusting).Now today Robert Abela is out to prove that as well as being a freeloading bum who grabs what he can no matter who is in government, he’s also good at playing at stupid. Sitting side by side with Owen Bonnici,  he told the press that Zaren Vassallo of Vassallo Builders “lied” when he said he paid €8 million to “Marsovin for the Qormi land” because he only paid €900,000 and absorbed €7.1 million of their brewery debts.Who are they trying to kid? They speak to even intelligent audiences as though they’re the congregation at one of Silvio Parnis’s coffee mornings. And unfortunately the newspapers don’t help, because instead of putting the facts into context, they run with the headline that Labour wants.I was immediately swamped by emails from people who read the story and were shocked at what Robert Abela had said. How can he be so stupid, was the general tone. When you buy a company and agree to absorb its debts, the debts are factored into the price you pay. If you absorb €7.1 million of the company’s debts and pay the shareholders €900,000, you’ve paid €8 million for the company – absorbing the debts means you’re paying them yourself. You’ve bought the company the company for €8 million but because it is saddled with debts of €7.1 million which you have got to pay yourself, you give the shareholders €900,000.A reader who is a corporate financial controller wrote in: “No wonder they’re making such a bloody mess if they can’t understand something so basic.”And to demonstrate that it is Robert Abela and the Justice Minister who are lying (or damned stupid), here’s something that I hadn’t bothered to upload with my original report about the subject,  though it looks like I should have: the actual contract of purchase for the sum of €8 million.  You couldn’t make these freeloading bogans up. Perhaps Mrs Luciano Busuttil will now write us a little explanation of how she came to be put on the payroll at the Malta Gaming Authority after Taghna Lkoll got into power and the Malta Gaming Authority was turned into a Labour snake-pit.Note to Dorothy: everywhere in Europe, the only women who wear make-up like that, especially in the daytime, are hookers. Thick, mask-like make-up, in the European context, is socially unacceptable for roughly the same reason as actual masks are.      All you had to do was look at who nominated them and who they nominated. Here’s Maria Micallef, Air Malta chairman, back in the summer of 2014 when this ridiculous business was all the rage. Michelle Muscat nominated her, she says – and she herself nominates Phyllis Muscat. What can I say? Cute.      Time for a memory-refresh. Three months after Labour won the general elections, Joseph Muscat called the press to the Office of the Prime Minister and presented them with John Dalli, announcing that a man of such great talent should not go to waste and that he required Dalli’s excellent skills in a decision-making position. It later emerged that this decision-making position concerned public hospitals and Dalli immediately installed himself at the state general hospital along with his daughter.This announcement (see videos below) took place on 14 June, 10 days after Konrad Mizzi’s Hearnville Inc and Keith Schembri’s Tillgate Inc were incorporated in Panama. Egrant Inc, the name of whose ultimate beneficial owner was not recorded in the Panama Papers email-cache because it was given over Skype, was incorporated on 4 July.  You’d think that politicians and activists who work for political parties would know that the descriptors ‘moderate’ and ‘extremist’ refer to ideology and policy. But with the Labour Party, that’s not the case – largely because the words ‘policy’ and ‘ideology’ mean nothing to them. Labour thinks in these terms: power = money, contracts and jobs.In politics, an extremist is somebody who espouses far right ideology: kick out immigrants, for example, or ‘Malta for the Maltese’. Or, at the other end of the spectrum, somebody who passes a law saying that you can change your gender by going to a notary and having a deed drawn up – no need for surgery or anything like that.Moderates, meanwhile, are nice, civilised people who just want a quiet public life with no corrupt politicians, respect the rights of others, and believe in freedom of expression without the pollution of government aides trying to frighten critics into silence – among other things.But that’s not how the Labour Party/government reads it. To those ignorant goons, ‘moderates’ are people who don’t criticise the Labour Party much or Nationalist politicians who give Labour a free or easy ride. And extremists are those who give corrupt Labour the bollocking it deserves. So I, who am not involved in politics at all and who espouses the most moderate kind of political ideology (liberal), far removed from the extremes of right and left, am an “extremist” for calling out the Labour government on its shocking corruption and for pointing out that when we out here are relying on the Nationalist Party to rid us of those criminals, those Nationalist politicians who are not pulling their weight, either because they are unable or unwilling to do so, are letting us down.The definition of a political extremist is not a citizen or journalist with an extreme desire to see the back of this corrupt and abusive outfit. That’s the definition of a normal, decent person.But the defining characteristic of the Malta Labour Party, other than abuse and corruption, is ignorance about the meaning of words and concepts.  If the corrupt cabal in government are reduced to wheeling out Owen Tal-Ajkla to go after Jason Azzopardi with the help of the Super One cameras, they’re not getting anywhere fast, because the whole thing reeks of desperation.They are, however, putting the usually calm and collected Azzopardi under massive amounts of psychological stress, to the point where it shows that he can’t focus in his usual manner. Ad that is exactly why the government/Labour Party are going after him. He now looks and feels hunted by malign people in power, which has been the intention all along.That would be why he took the ill-conceived decision to ring the police when he found the Labour Party cameras and propagandists outside his office. It was a decision he wouldn’t have taken if he were thinking clearly. When the mental fog lifted, he apologised.Azzopardi has open lines of communications with journalists in the independent press. He is one of the most accessible politicians in that respect. We all know that he takes calls, returns them, messages with an apology if he can’t answer the phone, gives answers and promises to get the answer if he can’t do it there and then, and does so.It was so unjust, therefore, that the ridiculous Institute of Maltese Journalists issued a statement taking him to task for ringing the police when he found Labour Party employees with their cameras outside his office. Have they ever leaped to my defence in that way, no much how much harassment I have gone through at the hands of the police and politicians? No. And I actually am a journalist, rather than an employee of a political party. The Institute of Maltese Journalists is politically motived.The employees of political parties are not journalists in the real sense of the word, and it is high time this important point is considered and the distinction made. The fundamental principles which underpin the protection and special status of journalists under the law are based on the fact that journalists act in the service of the public by holding politicians and others in high public office to account. It stands to reason that if somebody is paid to work for politicians, on the payroll of a political party, then he is in the service of the politicians he is meant to scrutinise, and not in the service of the public.The people hounding Jason Azzopardi and hanging around his office door are NOT journalists but Labour Party employees, and the sooner we get this straight, the better. They don’t even make any attempt at pretending that what they are doing is journalism, and they are not after the truth or the facts but are there as agents of the governing party to harass politicians of the rival, Opposition party. That is not an exercise in democracy and freedom of expression, but the precise opposite.Which brings me to another, related point: the Labour Party is in government. It is in power. It should understand that the tactics it used when in Opposition look really very ugly now. It is one thing sending your party employees and party cameras to harass government politicians when you are in Opposition. But the governing party sending its party employees and cameras to harass Opposition politicians and critics of the government? That’s absolutely terrible – and it is being read as terrible, if not in Malta then certainly outside Malta. Those are totalitarian tactics, and in the civilised world they are viewed with disgust and dismay.Meanwhile, I have a message for all those intellectually challenged members of the Maltese chattering class – and God knows it’s pretty big – who are oohing and aahing because poor Mario Demarco has been “attacked” by a blog-post on this website. Are you all out of your tiny minds? Haven’t you bloody noticed that the Nationalist politician who really is under attack is Jason Azzopardi, by the governing party and its entire mammoth party media machine? How about focussing your idiotic minds for a change – as though the mess you made in 2013 wasn’t bad enough – and work out what is going on, who really needs your support, and who is really doing some actual attacking.  There has been a strange show of alliance between the Labour Party/government and one of the Nationalist Party’s deputy leaders, Mario Demarco, over the last few days. We were even subjected to the unsavoury spectacle of Keith Schembri, the Prime Minister’s corrupt chief of staff, posting a message of support on Demarco’s Facebook page, and Demarco returning the compliment in an interview he gave to the Times of Malta.Why doesn’t anybody see anything peculiar in the way the Labour Party never touches Mario Demarco, that quite to the contrary it actually goes out of its way to support him? From the way they talk, you’d think he was a Labour politician, one of theirs.People’s minds just don’t work on this island. They don’t join the dots. They never see what’s staring them in the face, even if it has pink bells on, but then they believe conspiracy theories, and the more outlandish, the better.Mario Demarco and Keith Schembri, the Prime Minister’s corrupt chief of staff, have Adrian Hillman, the corrupt former managing direct of Allied Newspapers Ltd, in common – though not for the same reasons. If you want to read up on the backstory to Adrian Hillman’s corruption with Keith Schembri, or maybe you’ve forgotten already, just enter his name into the search box at the top of this page.Mario Demarco and Adrian Hillman have been best friends all their lives, and it was Mario Demarco’s father who installed Hillman at Allied Newspapers and had him anointed as the single replacement for both Progress Press’s Wilfred Asciak and Allied Newspapers’ Ronnie Agius when they retired.Demarco had no knowledge of Hillman’s corruption and the exact nature of his friendship with the Labour Party’s Keith Schembri, though there is no way he couldn’t have known that there was a close relationship. Did he never wonder about it?Demarco has since broken off all contact with Hillman because of the massive betrayal of trust. But the fact remains that Keith Schembri was never going to direct the Labour Party to launch any kind of onslaught on Demarco as long as he was best friends with his corrupt associate, Hillman. He is still protecting Demarco now, as we can see from the comment he left on his Facebook page. And this only makes me wonder who knows what about whom among those three people.We still don’t know exactly what is going on beneath the surface there, and nobody – not the Nationalist Party, not the Times of Malta and certainly not the Labour Party – seems to have any interest in reminding people that the Prime Minister’s chief of staff was involved in corrupt dealings with the managing director of Malta’s most influential newspaper and printing press during the years 2011 to 2015, which covered an extremely turbulent period in politics and also the 2013 general election campaign. The Nationalist Party’s deputy leader has no interest in reminding people about this massive scandal because one of the people involved was his best friend, a very painful situation for him at a personal level, and the Labour Party wants people to forget because it involves the Prime Minister’s corrupt chief of staff. And for obvious reasons, it’s a story the Times of Malta is not going to keep alive. Malta Today, for reasons that remain unclear, never touches Keith Schembri and didn’t even go after him when his web of secret companies was revealed. This is how situations turn foul in Malta, with a great conspiracy of silence about the most dangerous people, while those who shouldn’t be persecuted by the press and politicians are.  The National Commission for the Disabled has reported Labour MP Luciano Busuttil and his wife Dorothy to the police for abusive possession of a ‘blue badge’ which entitles the holder to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. The police have been requested to seize the badge and to investigate the matter.Mrs Busuttil has used the ‘disabled parking’ badge for four years, having acquired it through unclear means in 2013, supposedly after a car accident. She has no signs of any disability at all, still less the severely impaired mobility which is the primary requirement for entitlement to use a disabled parking bay. Mrs Busuttil can walk normally and is never seen without a pair of high heels, which she wears even to the office, when out with her children, and for daily errands.The story began here  and then escalated with this post which was shared 5,690 times on Facebook.Read the newspaper reports below:NewsbookThe Malta IndependentMalta TodayTimes of Malta  When the story broke this evening that the National Commission for the Disabled had immediately launched an inquiry after this report and this telephone conversation , Labour MP Luciano Busuttil, who is also – cynically, not ironically – chairman of the National Sports Council, released a statement saying that he never held a disabled-parking badge or used his wife’s.That was not, however, the National Commission for the Disabled’s reason for asking the police to seize it, nor was it the main item in my reports on this website. It was something else entirely: that Mrs Busuttil herself is not entitled to use parking space reserved for the disabled because she does not have impaired mobility. In other words, because she can walk and also spends her entire day in very high heels.But when he says that he never used his wife’s (abusively acquired) disabled-parking badge, he is lying. The photograph below shows Luciano Busuttil’s car – his car, not his wife’s – parking squarely in the disabled-parking bay outside Arkadia in Victoria.         